# CMPT276 Project Proposal: YouNote

  YouNote is a web application allowing users to take and save notes on YouTube videos, where each note is associated with a timestamp in the video. Notes are written in a text input within a form, which also contains a “time” input for the timestamp, and are located besides an embedded video in the same window. This allows its users to seamlessly and effortlessly go back and forth between a video and their own notes to quickly gain refreshers on a section of a video.
	
  The notes can be saved by clicking a button to submit the form only if the user is logged into an account to associate the note with the account. Time-permitting, users may be able to submit notes without an account and be able to save them after signing up for an account in the same web session. In a page to view and maybe share saved notes, admin accounts can modify or delete saved notes from standard accounts, but standard accounts can also modify and delete their own saved notes if we have time to implement this.
	
  In order to use the web application, users will first create a standard account. They can then post a link to a YouTube video on a search box which may redirect users to a page containing an embedded video and text box (with timestamp input) beside it. The user can also write text on the search box to find and click on a video link. If the video cannot be embedded because it has been disabled by the creator, a link or thumbnail of the video will be provided in place of the video. If a link is submitted and turns out to be invalid, the user will be redirected back to the search page with an error message appearing to indicate this.
	
  The timestamp of the video is either manually written or automatically generated. If the video is embedded, writing on an empty note input with an empty timestamp will automatically record the timestamp of the video at that moment. If there was text on the note input and if the timestamp was automatically recorded, erasing all text will delete the timestamp.
	
  The IFrame API is our web API used to embed a YouTube video and get an automatic timestamp on the note-taking page. The YouTube Data API is our REST API used to search for a YouTube video from the search box.
	
  There are more optional features we may implement if we have time. Users can share specific notes with other users by giving them access to these notes. These notes are selected somehow and shared with another account by specifying their email. Users, particularly instructors, can create “rooms” and distribute videos from the playlist to all of the students at once using the YouTube Data API. Users can also favorite videos so that they can quickly access a set of videos.
	
  
  For what has already been implemented, Google Chrome extensions, such as “TubersLab - Youtube Notepad”, “Rocket Note”, and “YouNoteIt”, are applications with the ability to take notes while having the video open on YouTube. Although their goal is the same as our application, our web app instead displays the video and note input on our website instead of on YouTube. There are no web apps that can be easily found that implements our idea.
  
  Without these or similar applications, users - who do not wish to use Google Chrome or these extensions or simply do not know they exist - have to take their own notes on a separate text editor or on paper. If users wish to timestamp their notes, they will need to manually write it down. If users do not timestamp their notes and wish to know which video or section of the video it references, they will need to search to find that video or section of the video, which may take up a significant amount of the user’s time.
	
  Our target audience is any individual who wishes to gain knowledge from the vast library of publicly available videos on YouTube and want a note-taking software integrated with a YouTube video. This solves the problem of needing to search through libraries of watched content to find the video section referenced by a particular note they took. For example, a student studying remotely with access to recorded YouTube lecture videos would benefit from being able to watch lectures and take timestamped notes simultaneously on the same page.
	
  
  In our first iteration, we will implement a sign-up page for a standard user account, setting of the admin user accounts, and the login. Regular users, on a sign-up page, will be able to sign up for a standard account by typing in their email and desired password in text inputs, contained within a form element. Optionally, when the user submits this form, the server will send a verification email where the user must click on a link to activate their account, which is needed to login to their account and use its functionality. Another optional feature is to be able to sign up and login with a Google account instead of using an email.
	
  The Postgres database for our app will have a ‘User’ table storing the unique ID, email, hashed password, and type (standard or admin) of submitted user accounts from the sign-up page. Only authorized developers will be able to set the type of accounts to admin. Time-permitting, a feature is that admin accounts can delete user accounts from the User table.
	
  In a login page, a user will type in their input and hashed password to be sent to the server. If the information is correct, the server will set a cookie to create a session between the user’s browser and the server. After a set period of time, the session will expire, for the account’s security, and the user must login in again to access their account. Optionally, we can include a checkbox so that users can stay signed in without their sessions expiring.
